Title: February 26 - March 14 / Where There's Smoke | Guest Curator Program 2020
----
startDate: 2020-02-24
----
Artists: Guest Curator Program, Where There's Smoke
			
----
Summary: 
----
Tags: 
				Guest Curator Program
			
----
Coverimage: 
----
Text: **Exhibition dates: 26 February - 14 March**   
Opening night: Wednesday 25 February, 6pm - 8.30pm

This exhibition forms Trocadero's 2020 International Women's Day Guest Curator Program, generously supported by Arts and Culture Maribyrnong

WHERE THERE'S SMOKE  
Savanna Kruger, Rubii Red, Charlotte Allingham, Sofii Belling, Kim Kruger  
Curated by Savanna Kruger

Fighting, you cannot tame her  
Igniting she will rise  
Reclaiming what was taken  
Environment sovereignty to survive

What happens when unceded lands are stolen from sovereign hands? When Indigenous knowledge is trampled? When mother country and her people are disrespected, used and abused? When we position ourselves, in white terms, on the "frontlines" of nature, "fighting" fires, and "battling" the elements that bring us life?

In the year 2020, in the longest fire season “Australia” has known, the answer is clear:

Burn, baby, burn.

In this exhibition, the climate crisis is explored by deadly Blak women, through our relationship to, and respect for, country. Fire may bring destruction, but with it comes renewal. Smoke may suffocate, but is used to cleanse and heal. Aboriginal people may be the most affected by the fires with loss of home &amp; heritage, mourning the loss of country as kin, the plants, animals, waterways, stars, and how they are all connected. Mourning the loss that comes with being denied access to country, of the ability to fulfil the responsibility to care for her.

But as the most resilient people on this earth, when faced with adversity, we too will fire up and regenerate.

It’s time to stop, drop, and roll into respecting Aboriginal people, country and the elements. [\#landback](https://www.facebook.com/hashtag/landback)

Image: Savanna Kruger and Charlotte Allingham  
Text: Savanna Kruger